[Pater noster]
v. Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation: But deliver us from evil.
Amen.

[Ave Maria]
v. Hail Mary, full of grace; The Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen.

[Credo]
v. I believe in God, the Father almighty, Creator of heaven and earth. And in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord; who was conceived by the  Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was  crucified, died and was buried: he descended into hell; the third day he arose again from the dead; he ascended into heaven; sitteth at the right hand of God the Father almighty: from thence he shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Ghost, the holy Catholic Church, the communion of Saints, the forgiveness of sins. The resurrection of the body. And life everlasting. Amen.

[Gloria]
V. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.
R. As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

[Gloria1]
V. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost.

[Requiem]
V. Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord. 
R. And let perpetual light shine upon them.

[Alleluia]
v. Alleluia.
v. Praise be to thee, O Lord, King of eternal glory.

[Dominus]
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit.
V. O Lord, hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come unto thee.
!skip second O Lord hear my prayer

[Flectamus]
V. Let us kneel.
R. Arise.

[Dominus vobiscum]
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit.

[IteMissa]
V. Go, the Mass is ended.
R. Thanks be to God.
V. Go, the Mass is ended. Alleluia, alleluia.
R. Thanks be to God. Alleluia, alleluia.
V. Let us bless the Lord.
R. Thanks be to God.
V. May they rest in peace.
R. Amen.

[Confiteor]
v. I confess to almighty God, to blessed Mary ever Virgin,~
to blessed Michael the Archangel, to blessed John the Baptist,~
to the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and to all the Saints,~
that I have sinned exceedingly in thought, word and deed:~
through my fault, through my fault, through my most grievous fault.~
Therefore I beseech blessed Mary ever Virgin, blessed Michael the Archangel,~
blessed John the Baptist, the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, and all the Saints,~
to pray for me to our Lord our God. 

[Misereatur]
v. May almighty God have mercy on us, forgive us our sins,~
and bring us to everlasting life.
Amen.

[Indulgentiam]
v. May the almighty + and merciful Lord grant us pardon,~
absolution and remission of our sins. 
Amen.

[Domine labia]
V. O Lord ++ open thou my lips.
R. And my mouth shall declare thy praise.

[Deus in adjutorium]
V. O God + come to my assistance;
R. O Lord, make haste to help me.

[Tu autem]
V. But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us.
R. Thanks be to God.

[Benedicamus Domino]
V. Let us bless the Lord.
R. Thanks be to God.

[Benedicamus Domino1]
V. Let us bless the Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
R. Thanks be to God, alleluia, alleluia.

[Deo gratias]
R. Thanks be to God.

[Gloria tibi]
R. Glory be to Thee, O Lord.

[Laus tibi]
R. Praise be to Thee, O Christ.
S. By the words of the Gospel may our sins be blotted out.

[Fidelium animae]
V. May the souls of the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace.
R. Amen.

[Per Dominum]
r. Through Jesus Christ, thy Son our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God, world without end.
R. Amen.

[Per Dominum eiusdem]
r. Through Jesus Christ, thy Son our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the same Holy Ghost, God, world without end.
R. Amen.

[Qui cum Patre]
r. Who liveth and reigneth with the Father and the Holy Ghost, God, for ever and ever. 
R. Amen.

[Per eumdem]
r. Through the same Jesus Christ, thy Son, Our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with thee in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God, world without end. 
R. Amen.

[Per eundem]
r. Through the same Jesus Christ, thy Son, Our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth with thee in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God, world without end. 
R. Amen.

[Qui vivis]
r. Who livest and reignest with God the Father, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, world without end.
R. Amen

[Qui tecum]
r. Who livest and reignest with God the Father, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, world without end.
R. Amen

[Qui tecum eiusdem]
r. Who livest and reignest with God the Father, in the unity of the same Holy Spirit, God, world without end.
R. Amen

[Te Deum]
v. We praise thee, O God we acknowledge thee to be the Lord.
All the earth doth worship thee the Father everlasting.
To thee all Angels cry aloud the Heavens, and all the Powers therein.
To thee Cherubim and Seraphim continually do cry,
_
Holy, Holy, Holy Lord God of Sabaoth;
_
Heaven and earth are full of the Majesty of thy glory.
The glorious company of the Apostles praise thee.
The goodly fellowship of the Prophets praise thee.
The noble army of Martyrs praise thee.
_
The holy Church throughout all the world doth acknowledge thee;
The Father of an infinite Majesty;
Thine honourable, true and only Son;
Also the Holy Ghost the Comforter.
_
Thou art the King of Glory O Christ.
Thou art the everlasting Son of the Father.
When thou tookest upon thee to deliver man 
thou didst not abhor the Virgin's womb.
_
When thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death 
thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers.
Thou sittest at the right hand of God in the glory of the Father.
We believe that thou shalt come to be our Judge.
_
!Kneel for the following verse
We therefore pray thee, help thy servants whom thou hast redeemed with thy precious blood.
Make them to be numbered with thy Saints in glory everlasting.
O Lord, save thy people and bless thine heritage.
Govern them and lift them up for ever.
_
Day by day we magnify thee; And we worship thy Name ever world without end.
Vouchsafe, O Lord to keep us this day without sin. 
O Lord, have mercy upon us have mercy upon us.
O Lord, let thy mercy lighten upon us as our trust is in thee.
_
O Lord, in thee have I trusted let me never be confounded.

[Ante]
v. O Lord, open thou my mouth that I may bless thy Holy Name. Cleanse~ 
my heart from all vain, evil, and wandering thoughts; enlighten my~
understanding kindle my affections, that I may pray to, and praise thee with~ 
attention and devotion; and may worthily be heard before the presence of~ 
thy Divine Majesty. Through Christ our Lord. Amen. 
_
v. Lord, in union with that Divine Intention wherewith thou didst thyself~ 
praise God, whilst thou wast on earth, I offer these Hours unto thee. 

[Post]
v. To the Most Holy and undivided Trinity, to the Manhood of our Lord~ 
Jesus Christ Crucified, to the fruitful Virginity of the most blessed and most~ 
glorious Mary, always a Virgin, and to the holiness of all the Saints be ascribed~ 
everlasting praise, honour, and glory, by all creatures, and to us be granted the~ 
forgiveness of all our sins, world without end.~
R. Amen. 
_
V. Blessed be the womb of the Virgin Mary which bore the Son of the Eternal Father. 
R. And blessed be the paps which gave suck to Christ our Lord. 
_
r. Our Father
r. Hail Mary

[Conclmart]
V. And elsewhere many other holy martyrs, confessors, and holy virgins.
$Deo gratias.

[DefunctV]
&Dominus_vobiscum
&Benedicamus_Domino 
! Recite %vespers of the dead%, skip Our Father, Hail Mary
$Fidelium animae
$Pater noster

[DefunctM]
! Recite the %office of the dead%

[Oremus]
v. Let us pray.

[Papa]
!For the Pope

[Te decet]
v. Thou art worthy of praise, thou art worthy of hymns, to Thee be glory: to God the Father and the Son with the Holy Ghost, world without end.  Amen

[MLitany]
v. Kyrie eleison. Christe, eleison. Kyrie, eleison.
&pater_noster

[Oratio]
Collect

[Lectio]
Lesson

[Graduale]
Gradual

[Vidi aquam]
#Vidi aquam
Ant. I saw water flowing from the right side of the temple, alleluia; and all they to whom that water came were saved; and they shall say: alleluia, alleluia. 	
Ps. Praise the Lord, because He is good; because His mercy endureth forever.
&Gloria
Ant. I saw water flowing from the right side of the temple, alleluia; and all they to whom that water came were saved; and they shall say: alleluia, alleluia. 	
_
V. Show us, O Lord, Thy mercy.
R. And grant us Thy salvation.
V. O Lord, hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come before Thee.
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit. 	
_
v. Let us pray.
Hear us, O holy Lord, almighty Father, everlasting God, and vouchsafe to send Thy holy Angel from heaven, to guard, cherish, protect, visit and defend all that are assembled in this place: through Christ our Lord. Amen. 

[Asperges me]
#Asperges me
Ant. Thou shalt sprinkle me, O Lord, with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; Thou shalt wash me, and I shall become whiter than snow.  		
Ps. Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great mercy. 					
&Gloria
Ant. Thou shalt sprinkle me, O Lord, with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; Thou shalt wash me, and I shall become whiter than snow.  		
_
V. Show us, O Lord, Thy mercy.
R. And grant us Thy salvation.
V. O Lord, hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come before Thee.
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit. 	
_
v. Let us pray.
Hear us, O holy Lord, almighty Father, everlasting God, and vouchsafe to send Thy holy Angel from heaven, to guard, cherish, protect, visit and defend all that are assembled in this place: through Christ our Lord. Amen. 

[Ultima Evangelium]
V. The beginning ++ of the holy Gospel according to John
! John 1, 1-14 
v. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was made nothing that was made: in Him was life, and the life was the Light of men; and the Light shineth in darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. This man came for a witness, to testify concerning the Light, that all might believe through Him. He was not the Light, but he was to testify concerning the Light. That was the true Light, which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the world knew Him not. He came unto His own, and His own received Him not. But as many as received Him to them He gave power to become sons of God, to them that believe in His Name, who are born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
_(Here all kneel.) And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us: and we saw His glory, the glory as of the Only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.

[Incipit]
Beginning

[Evangelium]
Gospel

[ ]

[Credo]
Credo&nbsp;

[Commemoratio]
Commemoration

[ThanksgivingAfterMass]
!Pope Leo XIII on the 20th of December 1884, allowed a one year indulgence for any priest saying the Canticle Tres pueri, Psalm 150 and the accompanied antiphons, versicles and prayers, and the prayers of Saint Thomas Aquinas and Saint Bonaventure as below.
Ant. Let us sing the hymn of the three children * which these holy ones sang of old in the fiery furnace, giving praise to the Lord. (Alleluia.)
!The antiphon is only duplicated on feasts of double rite.
!Canticum trium Puerorum
!Dan. 3, 57-88 et 56
V. All ye works of the Lord, bless the Lord: * praise and exalt him above all for ever.
V. O ye angels of the Lord, bless the Lord: * O ye heavens, bless the Lord.
V. O all ye waters that are above the heavens, bless the Lord: * O all ye powers of the Lord, bless the Lord
V. O ye sun and moon, bless the Lord: * O ye stars of heaven, bless the Lord.
V. O every shower and dew, bless ye the Lord: * O all ye spirits of God, bless the Lord.
V. O ye fire and heat, bless the Lord: * O ye cold and heat, bless the Lord.
V. O ye dews and hoar frosts, bless the Lord: * O ye frost and cold, bless the Lord.
V. O ye ice and snow, bless the Lord: * O ye nights and days, bless the Lord.
V. O ye light and darkness, bless the Lord: * O ye lightnings and clouds, bless the Lord.
V. O let the earth bless the Lord: * let it praise and exalt him above all for ever.
V. O ye mountains and hills, bless the Lord: * O all ye things that spring up in the earth, bless the Lord.
V. O ye fountains, bless the Lord: * O ye seas and rivers, bless the Lord.
V. O ye whales, and all that move in the waters, bless the Lord: * O all ye fowls of the air, bless the Lord.
V. O all ye beasts and cattle, bless the Lord: * O ye sons of men, bless the Lord.
V. O let Israel bless the Lord: * let them praise and exalt him above all for ever.
V. O ye priests of the Lord, bless the Lord: * O ye servants of the Lord, bless the Lord.
V. O ye spirits and souls of the just, bless the Lord: * O ye holy and humble of heart, bless the Lord.
V. O Ananias, Azarias, and Misael, bless ye the Lord: * praise and exalt him above all for ever.
V. Let us bless the Father and the Son, with the Holy Ghost; * let us praise and exalt him above all for ever.
V. Blessed art thou, O Lord, in the firmament of heaven: * and worthy of praise, and glorious for ever.
!Neither Glory Be nor Amen here
_
!Psalm 150
V. Praise ye the Lord in his holy places: * praise ye him in the firmament of his power.
V. Praise ye him for his mighty acts: * praise ye him according to the multitude of his greatness.
V. Praise him with sound of trumpet: * praise him with psaltery and harp.
V. Praise him with timbrel and choir: * praise him with strings and organs.
V. Praise him on high sounding cymbals: praise him on cymbals of joy: * let every spirit praise the Lord.
&Gloria
_
Ant. Let us sing the hymn of the three children * which these holy ones sang of old in the fiery furnace, giving praise to the Lord. (Alleluia.)
_
Lord have mercy on us, Christ have mercy on us, Lord have mercy on us.
v.  Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation:
R. But deliver us from evil. Amen.
V. Let all your works praise you. Lord.
R. And let your saints bless you.
V. Your saints shall rejoice in glory.
R. They shall rejoice in their resting place.
V. Not unto us, Lord, nor unto us,
R. But unto your name give glory.
V. O Lord. hear my prayer.
R. And let my cry come unto you.
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with your spirit.
V. Let us pray.
v. God, who allayed the flames of fire for three children, grant in your mercy that the flame of vice may not consume us, your servants. Direct, we beseech thee, Lord our actions by your inspirations and further them by your assistance, so that every word and work of ours may begin always from you and by you be likewise ended.
v. Quench in us, we beseech you, Lord, the flame of vice, even us you enabled blessed Lawrence to overcome his fire of sufferings. Through Christ our Lord.
R. Amen.

[SaintThomasAquinas]`
# Prayer of St. Thomas Aquinas
_
v. I give thanks to Thee, O Lord, most holy, Father almighty, eternal God, that Thou hast vouchsafed, for no merit of mine own, but out of Thy pure mercy, to appease the hunger of my soul with the precious body and blood of Thy Son, Our Lord Jesus Christ.
Humbly I implore Thee, let not this holy communion be to me an increase of guilt unto my punishment, but an availing plea unto pardon and salvation.
Let it be to me the armour of faith and the shield of good will.
May it root out from my heart all vice; may it utterly subdue my evil passions and all my unruly desires. May it perfect me in charity and patience; in humility and obedience; and in all other virtues.
May it be my sure defence against the snares laid for me by my enemies, visible and invisible.
May it restrain and quiet all my evil impulses, and make me ever cleave to Thee Who art the one true God.
May I owe to it a happy ending of my life.
And do Thou, O heavenly Father, vouchsafe one day to call me, a sinner, to that ineffable banquet, where Thou, together with Thy Son and the Holy Ghost, art to Thy saints true and unfailing light, fullness of content, joy for evermore, gladness without alloy, consummate and everlasting happiness.
Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

[SaintBonaventure]
# Prayer of S. Bonaventure
_
v. Pierce, O most sweet Lord Jesus, my inmost soul with the most joyous and healthful wound of Thy love, and with true, calm and most holy apostolic charity, that my soul may ever languish and melt with entire love and longing for Thee, may yearn for Thee and for thy courts, may long to be dissolved and to be with Thee.
Grant that my soul may hunger after Thee, the Bread of Angels, the refreshment of holy souls, our daily and supersubstantial bread, having all sweetness and savor and every delightful taste. May my heart ever hunger after and feed upon Thee, Whom the angels desire to look upon, and may my inmost soul be filled with the sweetness of Thy savor;
may it ever thirst for Thee, the fountain of life, the fountain of widsom and knowledge, the fountain of eternal light, the torrent of pleasure, the fulness of the house of God;
may it ever compass Thee, seek Thee, find Thee, run to Thee, come up to Thee, meditate on Thee, speak of Thee, and do all for the praise and glory of Thy name, with humility and discretion, with love and delight, with ease and affection, with perseverence to the end;
and be Thou alone ever my hope, my entire confidence, my riches, my delight, my pleasure, my joy, my rest and tranquility, my peace, my sweetness, my food, my refreshment, my refuge, my help, my wisdom, my portion, my possession, my treasure; in Whom may my mind and my heart be ever fixed and firm and rooted immovably. Amen.

[PrayerToJesusInThanksgiving]
# Prayer to Jesus (in Thanksgiving)
v. O LORD Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, Who according to the will of the Father, with the co-operation of the Holy Ghost, hast by Thy death given life unto the world, deliver me by Thy most sacred Body, which I, unworthy, have presumed to receive, from all my iniquities and from every evil, and make me ever to hold fast to Thy commandments and suffer me never to be separated from Thee. Amen.

[HymnStThomasAquinas]
# Hymn of St. Thomas Aquinas
<span class="red, text-sm"><i>Indulgence 100 days daily by Leo PP. XIII, 20 Dec. 1884</i></span>
r. Godhead here in hiding, whom I do adore,
Masked by these bare shadows, shape and nothing more,
See, Lord, at thy service low lies here a heart
Lost, all lost in wonder at the God thou art.
_
r. Seeing, touching, tasting are in thee deceived:
How says trusty hearing? that shall be believed;
What God's Son has told me, take for truth I do;
Truth himself speaks truly or there's nothing true.
_
r. On the cross thy godhead made no sign to men,
Here thy very manhood steals from human ken:
Both are my confession, both are my belief,
And I pray the prayer of the dying thief.
_
r. I am not like Thomas, wounds I cannot see,
But can plainly call thee Lord and God as he;
Let me to a deeper faith daily nearer move,
Daily make me harder hope and dearer love.
_
r. O thou our reminder of Christ crucified,
Living Bread, the life of us for whom he died,
Lend this life to me then: feed and feast my mind,
There be thou the sweetness man was meant to find.
_
r. Bring the tender tale true of the Pelican;
Bathe me, Jesu Lord, in what thy bosom ran---
Blood whereof a single drop has power to win
All the world forgiveness of its world of sin.
_
r. Jesu, whom I look at shrouded here below,
I beseech thee send me what I thirst for so,
Some day to gaze on thee face to face in light
And be blest for ever with thy glory's sight.
Amen.

[PrayerToOurLord]
# Prayer to Our Lord
v. I BESEECH Thee, O most meek and loving Jesus, that this immortal Host may return Thee thanks on my behalf, may reconcile and restore me to Thee. May it procure pardon for me, a sinner, and lead me to everlasting life. Amen.
_
v. HOW SWEET and lovely is this Bread of heaven which Thou hast given us! How wonderful is the rest, how full the peace which they experience who receive Thee after a sincere and sorrowful confession of their sins! For this, O my Jesus, be Thou praised a thousand times!
In the matter of sin I have been most unfortunate; but now not only do I enjoy true comfort of soul, but I also believe that I have had a foretaste of the peace of heaven.
How true it is, O Lord, that our soul was made for Thee, and can enjoy true peace only when it rests in Thee!
From the bottom of my heart, therefore, do I thank Thee and I firmly resolve ever to fly sin and its occasions and to take up my lasting dwelling in Thy divine Heart, from which I hope the grace and help to love Thee until death. Amen.

[AnimaChristi]
# Anima Christi
v. SOUL of Christ, sanctify me.
Body of Christ, save me.
Blood of Christ, inebriate me.
Water from the side of Christ, wash me.
Passion of Christ, strengthen me.
O good Jesus, hear me.
Within Thy Wounds hide me.
Suffer me not to be separated from Thee.
From the malignant enemy, defend me.
In the hour of my death, call me,
And bid me come to Thee.
That with Thy saints, I may praise Thee.
Forever and ever.
Amen.

[PrayerStAugustine]
# Prayer of St. Augustine
v. BEFORE Thine eyes, O Lord, we bring our sins, and we compare them with the stripes we have received.
If we examine the evil we have wrought, what we suffer is little, what we deserve is great.
What we have committed is very grievous, what we have suffered is very slight.
We feel the punishment of sin, yet withdraw not from the obstinacy of sinning.
Under Thy lash our inconstancy is visited, but our sinfulness is not changed.
Our suffering soul is tormented, but our neck is not bent.
Our life groans under sorrow, yet amends not in deed.
If Thou spare us, we correct not our ways: if Thou punish, we cannot endure it.
In time of correction we confess our wrongdoing: after Thy visitation we forget that we have wept.
If Thou stretchest forth Thy hand, we promise amendment; if Thou withholdest the sword, we keep not our promise.
If Thou strikest, we cry out for mercy; if Thou sparest, we again provoke Thee to strike Here we are before Thee,
O Lord, confessedly guilty; we know that unless Thou pardon we shall deservedly perish.
Grant then, O almighty Father, without our deserving it, the pardon we ask; Thou Who madest out of nothing those Who ask Thee. Through Christ our Lord. Amen
V. Deal not with us, O Lord, according to our sins.
R. Neither reward us according to our iniquities.
V. Let us pray.
V. O God, Who by sin art offended and by penance pacified, mercifully regard the prayers of Thy suppliant people, and turn away the scourges of Thy wrath, which we deserve for our sins. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.

[ObsecroTe]
# Obsecro Te...
v. I beseech Thee, most sweet Lord Jesus Christ, that Thy Passion may be to me power by which I may be strengthened, protected and defended.
May Thy wounds be to me food and drink by which I may be nourished, inebriated, and delighted. May the sprinkling of Thy Blood be to me an ablution for all my sins.
May Thy death prove for me unfailing life, and may Thy Cross be to me eternal glory. In these be my refreshment, joy, health, and delight of my heart: Thou who livest and reignest forever.  Amen.

[PrayerBlessedVirgin1]
# Prayer to the Blessed Virgin #1
v. O MOST holy, O most benign, O noble and glorious Virgin Mary, who wast worthy to bear in thy sacred womb the Creator of all, and at thy virginal breast to nourish Him Whose true, real, and most holy Body and Blood I, an unworthy sinner, have just now dared to receive:
vouchsafe, I humbly beseech thee, to intercede with Him for me a sinner; that whatsoever, by ignorance or neglect, by accident or irreverence, I have left undone, or have done amiss, in this unspeakably holy Sacrament,
may be pardoned through thy prayers to the same our Lord Jesus Christ, thy SON, Who with the FATHER and the HOLY GHOST livest and reignest forever and ever. Amen.

[PrayerBlessedVirgin2]
# Prayer to the Blessed Virgin #2
v. O MARY, thou who desirest so much to see Jesus loved, if thou love me, this is the favour which I ask of thee, to obtain for me a great love of Jesus Christ.
Thou obtainest from thy Son whatever pleases thee; pray, then, for me, and console me. Obtain for me a great love towards thee, who, of all creatures, art the most loving and beloved of God.
And through that grief which thou didst suffer on Calvary, when thou beheldest Jesus expire on the Cross, obtain for me a happy death, that by loving Jesus and thee, my Mother, I may come to love thee forever in heaven. Amen.

[PrayerBlessedVirginMaryAfterHolyMass]
# Prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary after Holy Mass
v. O MARY, most holy Virgin and Mother, behold, I have received thy most beloved Son, Jesus Christ, whom thou concievedst in thy spotless womb, bore, nursed, and held with thy sweet embraces.
Behold Him at whose sight thou willst rejoice and be filled with every delight. With love I humbly return Him and offer Him to thee, to hold once more, to love with all thy heart, and to offer to the Holy Trinity as our supreme act of worship for thy honor and glory and for my good and the good of all the world.
Therefore I ask thee, most loving Mother, to ask God for forgiveness of all my sins, abundant graces to help me serve Him more faithfully, and for that final grace that I may praise Him with thee for ever and ever. Amen.

[PrayerStPadrePio]
# Prayer of St. Padre Pio
v. STAY with me, Lord, for it is necessary to have Thou present so that I do not forget Thee.
Thou knowest how easily I abandon Thee.
Stay with me, Lord, because I am weak, and I need Thy strength, so that I may not fall so often.
Stay with me, Lord, for Thou art my life, and without Thee, I am without fervour.
Stay with me, Lord, for Thou art my light, and without Thee, I am in darkness.
Stay with me, Lord, to show me Thy Will.
Stay with me, Lord, so that I hear Thy Voice and follow Thee.
Stay with me, Lord, for I desire to love Thee very much, and always be in Thy company.
Stay with me, Lord, if Thou wishest me to be faithful to Thee.
Stay with me, Lord, for as poor as my soul is, I want it to be a place of consolation for Thee, a nest of love.
Amen.

[PrayerBeforeCrucifix]
# Prayer before a Crucifix
v. BEHOLD, O Kind and most sweet Jesus, before Thy Face I humbly kneel, and with the most fervent desire of soul, I pray and beseech Thee to impress upon my heart lively sentiments of faith, hope and charity, true contrition for my sins and a firm purpose of amendment.
_
v. With deep affection and grief of soul, I ponder within myself, mentally contemplating Thy five Wounds, having before my eyes the words which David the Prophet spoke concerning Thee: “They have pierced my hands and my feet, they have numbered all my bones.” Amen.
<i>Conclude with Our Father, Hail Mary & Glory Be for the Holy Father’s intentions.</i>
<span class="red, text-sm"><i>(Pre-1968 Plenary Indulgence under normal conditions: Confession, Communion, etc. and above prayers for the Holy Father.)</i></span>

[Psalm95]
# Psalm 95 - Cantate Domino
v. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: * sing to the Lord, all the earth.
Sing ye to the Lord and bless his name: * shew forth his salvation from day to day.
Declare his glory among the Gentiles: * his wonders among all people.
For the Lord is great, and exceedingly to be praised: * he is to be feared above all gods.
For all the gods of the Gentiles are devils: * but the Lord made the heavens.
r. Praise and beauty are before him: * holiness and majesty in his sanctuary.
Bring ye to the Lord, O ye kindreds of the Gentiles, bring ye to the Lord glory and honour: * bring to the Lord glory unto his name.
Bring up sacrifices, and come into his courts: * adore ye the Lord in his holy court.
Let all the earth be moved at his presence. * Say ye among the Gentiles, the Lord hath reigned.
For he hath corrected the world, which shall not be moved: * he will judge the people with justice.
r. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad, let the sea be moved, and the fulness thereof: * the fields and all things that are in them shall be joyful.
Then shall all the trees of the woods rejoice before the face of the Lord, because he cometh: * because he cometh to judge the earth.
He shall judge the world with justice, * and the people with his truth.
_
<i>Gloria Patri …</i>

[PrayerStJosephAfterMass]
# Prayer to St. Joseph After Mass
v. Guardian of virgins and father, Saint Joseph, to whose faithful custody Innocence itself, Christ Jesus, and Mary, Virgin of virgins, was committed; I pray and beseech thee by each of these dear pledges, Jesus and Mary, that, being preserved from all uncleanness, I may with spotless mind, pure heart, and a chaste body, ever serve Jesus and Mary most chastely all the days of my life. Amen.

[AllThingsNecessarySalvation]
# Prayer for All Things Necessary to Salvation
v. LORD, I believe in Thee: but let me believe more strongly. I hope in Thee: but let me hope more securely. I love Thee: but let me love Thee more ardently. I sorrow, but deepen my sorrow for my sins.
I adore Thee as my first beginning, I long for Thee as my last end, I praise Thee as my constant benefactor, I call on Thee as my loving protector.
Guide me by Thy wisdom, hold me with Thy justice, comfort me with Thy mercy, protect me with Thy power.
I offer Thee, Lord, my thoughts, my words, my actions, and my sufferings to be fixed on Thee, to be according to Thee, and to be endured for Thee.
I want to do what Thou willeth, in the way Thou willeth for as long as Thou willeth, because Thou willeth.
I pray, O Lord, enlighten my understanding, inflame my will, purify my heart, and sanctify my soul.
May I weep for my former iniquities, repel future temptations, correct my faults, and cultivate suitable virtues.
Grant me, O God, love of Thee, hatred of me, zeal for my neighbor, contempt the world.
May I be eager to obey my superiors, be courteous to my inferiors, faithful to my friends, and to forgive my enemies.
Help me to conquer sensuality with austerity, greed with generosity, anger with gentleness, apathy with fervor.
Make me prudent in planning, steadfast in danger, patient in adversity, and humble in prosperity.
O Lord, make me attentive in prayer, temperate in drink, diligent in my duties, and firm in purpose.
May I take care to have an innocent interior, a modest exterior , exemplary speech, and a well-ordered life.
May I be ever-watchfull in guarding against my weaknesses, cherishing Thy grace, keeping Thy laws, and coming to salvation.
May I learn from Thee the passing nature of this world, the grandness of heaven, the shortness of this life, and the life to come eternal.
Grant that I may prepare for death, fear judgment, flee from Hell, and obtain paradise.
Grant this though Christ our Lord. Amen.
<span class="red, text-sm"><i>(Clement XI 1649-1721, Pope and Scholar)</i></span>

[TrinitarianAfterMass1]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving I
v. O Jesus, Thou art all bountiful, and there is no giver like Thee. Thou art the cheerful giver whom the Father loves with a great love. I thank Thee for Thy priceless gift.
I thank Thee for coming to me in this morning light.
r. Even Thou couldest not give me more, for Thou hast given me Thyself. O loving Lord, my friend and brother and God, Thou didst make Thyself the servant of all.
Hungry and thirsty and tired, Thou didst seek for us, as a shepherd seeks for his sheep that are scattered.
From cloudy mountains Thou didst gather us in days of darkness and dread. I long to love Thee more, O Brother, Who didst die for me.
I long to keep Thee more lovingly in my heart, O Friend, Who givest me Thyself in this sacrament of Thy love.
Let my soul be joined more and more to Thine; and let my body belong more and more to Thee. Thou givest me power to become a child of God. O Son of God, Thou hast come to me from the altar, in healing and light.

[TrinitarianAfterMass2]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving II
v. Thou art hidden, my Jesus, from every eye. Though Thou dwellest in the accessible light, yet clouds and thick darkness are round about Thy earthly dwelling.
O dearest Lord, Thou art a hidden God. Thou art the God of Israel, my Saviour. I thank Thee for coming to me; and I thank Thee for bringing me to Thy banquet of love.
I praise Thee and bless Thee in the paradise of God; and I praise Thee and bless Thee in this dimness of the shadow of death.
At Thy appearing I shall be like Thee, for I shall see Thee as Thou art. Make me more and more like Thyself here.
One day, in the land of praise, in the great thanksgiving of eternity, I shall follow Thee whithersoever Thou goest over the mountains of the Israel of God.
Give me grace to be faithful to Thee here, and to follow in Thy steps, day by day. Thou hast come to me, Jesus, in the Blessed Sacrament.
By Thy gift Thou dost make me rich; and in Thy love Thou art the gladness of my life.

[TrinitarianAfterMass3]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving III
v. Thou, Jesus, art the incorruptible ark of the covenant. By Thee and with Thee we are kept from sin and from everlasting death.
I bless and praise Thee for Thine own holiness, and for the holiness Thou givest to Thy servants.
Give me more love, dear Jesus, and more cleanness of heart, and bring me safely to the incorruptible kingdom where Thou dost ever dwell.
There no rust consumes, and there no moth destroyeth. There all souls are bright with the fire of the love of God.
Thou hast now come to me in Thy holy sacrament, that I may be strengthened for my journey to Thy home.
Thou didst give corn to the brethren of Joseph in Egypt. Lead me into the lowest places, that by humility I may be pleasing to Thee.
There, Jesus, give to me the corn of the elect, that I may praise Thee always as I am praising Thee now. Thou dost ever gird me with strength.
Thou dost feed me with the bread of heaven, that I may feel no longing for the food of earth. I am needy; Thou,
Jesus, art my bread. I am poor; Thou, Jesus, art my life. In Thy light, O Word of the Father, I shall see light. For all this I thank Thee and love Thee, and give Thee the praise of my heart.

[TrinitarianAfterMass4]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving IV
v. O Eternal Father, Thou hast set me here to try me and prove me, and Thou hast given me a work to do. For this I thank Thee and bless Thee and praise Thee.
In all sorrow and in all pain, in the light of our eyes and in the gladness of life, Thou dost wisely and sweetly order all things from one end of the world to the other.
Thou dost wisely and sweetly order all things about me. I am poor and weak and blind; but Thou hast always thought of me Thy child, and Thou hast always loved me, and lovest me now, with an everlasting love.
However great my sufferings may be in body or in mind, keep me in Thy peace, and give me grace always to find my support in Thee.
Whatever loneliness or dread or shadows of terror may come to me, Thy hand holds me, and Thy right hand guides me.
Thou art blessed in all that Thou givest, and blessed in all that Thou dost not give, and blessed in all that Thou takest away.
O most loving Father, though Thou shouldest slay me I will trust Thee.
r. Now I thank Thee for this living bread which I have received.
The crumbs from the table of Thy Son are more precious than all the feasts and riches of the world.
With all my heart and all my soul and all my strength I give thanks and love and praise to Thee.
Thou art the unbeginning fountain of the Godhead. Thou art the principle of Thy uncreated Son, and with Him Thou art the principle of Thy uncreated Spirit. O Father, I love Thee.

[TrinitarianAfterMass5]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving V
v. Spirit of the Father and the Son, in the dawn of the world Thou didst move over the face of the waters.
Thou didst overshadow the Mother of God in Nazareth, when the Word was made flesh, and God sent forth His Son made of a woman.
Thou art He by Whom Jesus offered Himself without spot to God on the altar of the cross. By Thee Jesus is offered now in this unbloody sacrifice of the altar.
Thou art the Sanctifier, almighty and eternal God, and Thou dost ever bless the sacrifice that is made ready for Thy name.
O loving Spirit, strengthen my faith. Give me an ever-brighter love for Jesus.
He is Emmanuel, God with us: God with us in our human nature, God with us in this sacrament of His love.
Dear Spirit, I live and move and am in Thee: and I love Thee.
r. O ever-blessed Trinity, one God, Thou hast given me bread in my hunger and drink in my thirst.
I call to mind all Thy love and gentleness and compassion, in which Thou hast led me and guided me until now.
With all my heart I pray for greater gifts of Thy grace and more overflowing treasure of Thy love.
Give to me, as Thou only canst give, the blessings of heaven above, and the blessings of the deep that lieth beneath.
In the morning let me rise with Thee in faithfulness, that in the evening I may rest safely with Thee in love and joy and peace. O God, my soul resteth in Thee.

[TrinitarianAfterMass6]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving VI
v. O Holy Ghost, Who doest wonders in nature and in grace, convert me to Thyself more and more.
Take from me my heart of stone and make it a heart of flesh, on which may be written hymns of praise and love, for Thou art the spirit of the living God.
Thou art the light shining out of darkness. Shine in my heart, and give me the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
Strengthen me that I may always bear about in my body the dying of Jesus, that in me the life of Jesus may be manifested.
Let Thy grace abound through many in thanksgiving to the glory of God; let it abound in my heart.
Thy miracles are known on every altar where Jesus gives to us the bread of life, His own body and blood.
I have received Him into my soul; I have received the incarnate Word, God and man. From Him with the Father Thou dost ever proceed.
We give thanks and love and praise and glory and blessing to Thee. Thou, with Jesus our Lord, art most high in the glory of God the Father.

[TrinitarianAfterMass7]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving VII
v. O Holy Ghost, I thank Thee for the bread of life which Jesus gives. It is His gift to me; it is Thy gift to me; it is a possession for ever.
I bless and praise Thee for the miracles which Thou daily workest in order that Jesus may be the food of His people.
In a hundred lands, in thousands of churches, in the heat of summer and in the winter cold, in the midst of the morning dew and when the sun is high, a pure sacrifice is offered to God, and a banquet of heaven is spread for all.
Hungry and thirsty, our souls faint within us; but we cry to Thee, and Thou leadest us in a right way, a way that brings us to Thy storehouses and to the garners of Thy grace.
We kneel before the altar, and Thou dost satisfy the empty soul, and dost fill the hungry soul with good things. We wander in a wilderness, but Thy springs are always found in it.
Jesus has redeemed us from the enemy. Thou art the Comforter Whom He sent. Thou dost gather us from all lands, from the rising and the setting sun, from the north and from the sea.
Thy mercies, O Lord, give glory to Thee, and Thy wonderful works for the children of men ever show forth Thy praise.

[TrinitarianAfterMass8]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving VIII
v. I thank Thee, dear Jesus, for all Thy sacraments. I thank Thee above all for Thyself. I thank Thee because I can feed upon Thee spiritually, even when I cannot come before Thy altar.
Give me a greater thirst for Thee, Thou lover of my soul, and let me sit beneath Thy shadow and taste of Thy sweetness more. Lift me to Thyself on high, and let my soul be steeped in Thy light.
Give me a great love, for all things holy and just and pure and lovely and true. Let me feed on the pleasures of Thy right hand, and let me drink of the torrent of Thy river.
Thy land is ever flowing with milk and honey; but Thou, my own Jesus, my loved one, art far sweeter than honey and the honeycomb.
Thy city has gates of pearl, and its jasper wall has foundations of precious stones; but Thou art the one pearl without price, and for Thy love I would gladly sell all that I have.
r. Thy sweetness deadens my taste for the world’s gifts, and in all bitterness of sorrow the light of Thy face and the love of Thy heart are joy and rest and peace.
I bless and praise and love Thee for forgiving my sins. I bless and praise Thee for saving me from the undying fire.
I bless and praise Thee for all Thy spiritual gifts here, and for the hope of Thy heavenly joys hereafter. Thou art my Jesus in heaven and my Jesus on the altar.
Thou art my Jesus in my heart. For this I love Thee, and bless Thee, and praise Thee, and glorify Thee, and adore Thee for and ever.

[TrinitarianAfterMass9]
# Trinitarian Thanksgiving IX
v. Eternal Father, I thank Thee for the gift that Thou hast given me. It is Thy beloved Son, in Whom Thou art well pleased. In Him and by Him give me strength to keep all my good resolutions.
r. Eternal Son, I thank Thee for the gift that Thou hast given me. It is Thyself Who didst die for me. Make me, dear Jesus, wiser with Thy heavenly wisdom, and show me clearly all the things I should do for God.
r. Eternal Spirit, I thank Thee for the gift that Thou hast given me. It is Jesus, whose soul Thou didst sanctify with Thy holiest treasures. Make me, dear Spirit, more loving, that I may cling more closely to God.
r. O ever-blessed Trinity, three Persons and one God, help me to live according to this gift of gifts which I have received at the altar of Jesus.

[FormulaIntensionisAnteMissam]
# Statement of Intention Before Mass by Pope Gregory XIII
v. My purpose is to celebrate Mass and to make present the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ according to the rite of the holy Roman Church to the praise of our all-powerful God and all His assembly in the glory of heaven, for my good and the good of all His pilgrim Church on earth, and for all who have asked me to pray for them in general and in particular, and for the good of the holy Roman Church.
r. May the almighty and merciful Lord grant us joy and peace, amendment of life, room for true repentance, the grace and comfort of the Holy Spirit and perseverance in good works. Amen.

[ActOfOblationBeforeMass]
# Act of Oblation:
v. ETERNAL Father, I offer Thee the Sacrifice wherein Thy dear Son, Jesus, offered Himself upon the Cross and which He now renews upon this altar:
V. To adore Thee and to render to Thee that honour which is Thy due, acknowledging Thy supreme dominion over all things and their absolute dependence on Thee, for Thou art our first beginning and our last end;
V. To give Thee thanks for countless benefits received;
V. To appease Thy Justice, provoked to anger by so many sins, and to offer Thee worthy satisfaction for the same;
V. And finally to implore Thy Grace and Mercy for myself, for all those who are in tribulation and distress, for all poor sinners, for the whole world and for the blessed souls in purgatory. Amen.

[ForSinners]
# For Sinners:
v. O GOD, in Whose sight every soul may well fear and every conscience tremble, be gracious to every cry of sorrow and heal the wounds of sins in all. Even as none of us is free from fault, so may none be a stranger to Thy Mercy. Amen.

[ForTheChurch]
# For the Church:
v. ALMIGHTY, Eternal God, by ever giving strength to our weakness, Thou enable the Church to flourish even amidst its trials, so that when it appears to men to be utterly cast down, then rather does it gloriously prevail. Whilst, then, it accepts affliction as a proving of its faith, let it persevere, by Thy grace, in triumphant loyalty. Amen.

[ForTheFaithful]
# For the Faithful:
v. TO ALL who live in the Truths of the Faith give grace, most tender Father, that they may lead upright and holy lives, never departing from Thy teaching. To those who as yet have not found faith in Thee, grant that before they quit this life they may believe and know the love of Thy Holy Name. Then, having known it, may they keep it firm and inviolate. Let the Sacrifice of Thy Body and Blood win pardon of the sins for the living and the dead. Amen.

[InPreparationToReceiveCommunion]
# In Preparation to Receive Communion
<span class="red, text-sm"><i>Direct Your Intention</i></span>
v. O Lord, Jesus Christ, King of everlasting glory, behold I desire to come to you this day, and to receive your Body and Blood in this heavenly Sacrament, for your honor and glory, and the good of my soul. I desire to receive you, because it is your desire, and you have so willed it: blessed be your Name forever.
I desire to come to you like Magdalen, that I may be delivered from all my evils, and embrace you, my only Good. I desire to come to you, that I may be happily united to you, that I may henceforth abide in you, and you in me; and that nothing in life or death may ever separate me from you. Amen.

[CommemorateThePassionOfChrist]
# Commemorate the Passion of Christ
v. I desire in these holy mysteries to commemorate, as thou hast commanded, '“all thy sufferings, thy agony and bloody sweat, thy being betrayed and apprehended, all the reproaches and calumnies, all the scoffs and affronts, all the blows and buffets thou hast endured for me;
thy being scourged, crowned with thorns, and loaded with a heavy cross for my sins, and for those of the whole world; thy crucifixion and death, together with thy glorious resurrection, and triumphant ascension.
I adore thee and give thee thanks for all that thou hast done and suffered for us; and for giving us, in this blessed sacrament, this pledge of our redemption, this victim of our ransom, this body and blood, which were offered for us.

[ActOfFaith]
# Act of Faith
v. I firmly believe, O my divine Jesus, that Thou art truly present in the Blessed Sacrament of the Altar. I believe that It really and substantially contains Thy Body and Blood, Thy soul and divinity.
I acknowledge these truths; I believe these wonders; I adore the power that has wrought them, the same power that said: “Let there be light”, and light was made. Verily, Thou art a hidden God,  the Saviour. Amen.

[ActOfHope]
# Act of Hope
v. Since Thou vouchsafest to come and dwell within me, O my Redeemer, what may I not expect from Thy bounty! I therefore present myself before Thee with that lively confidence which Thine infinite goodness inspires.
Thou not only knowest all my wants, but Thou art also wiling and able to relieve them. Thou hast not only invited me, but also promised me Thy gracious assistance. Amen.

[ActOfCharity]
# Act of Charity
v. As the hart panteth after the fountains of water; so my soul panteth after thee, O God. My soul hath thirsted after the strong living God; when shall I come and appear before the face of God?
For what have I in heaven? and besides Thee, what do I desire upon earth? Let blind and infatuated worldlings intoxicate themselves with the false, transient, and fading happiness of this life; for my part, nothing besides Thyself can content me, either in heaven or on earth.
Come then, O Thou Lamb of God, Who takes away the sins of the world! Come, Thou Beloved of my heart! Adorable Flesh and precious Blood of my Savior!
Come, to nourish, comfort, and enliven my sickly soul. O God of my heart! let me neither love, seek, nor think on any other object but Thyself alone; for Thou alone art my consolation, my treasure, my joy, my life, my all!
“My heart and my flesh have rejoiced in the living God…Thou art, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God!” “Who will give me wings like a dove and will fly and be at rest!”

[ActOfHumility]
# Act of Humility
v. O God of infinite sanctity! Who am I that Thou shouldst deign to come to me? “The heavens are not pure in Thy sight,” and wilt Thou dwelt in my heart? “Lord!
I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under my roof.” The consciousness of my unworthiness would prompt me to exclaim, “Depart from me, O Lord, for I am a sinner.”
But oh, the wonderful condescension of Thy love! Thy pressing invitation encourages me and dispels my fears. “Here I am for Thou didst call me.”
Come, then, O Jesus, take possession of a heart that wishes to belong to Thee. “Behold, they that go far from Thee shall perish.”
But, O my God, this house of my heart is too narrow for Thee: do Thou enlarge it; it is falling to ruin; do Thou repair it; it has been defiled by sin: do Thou cleanse and purify it.
“Look Thou upon me, and have mercy on me. Oh, heal my soul, for I have sinned against Thee! Let Thy tender mercies come unto me, and I shall live!
Lord, I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under my roof; say but the word, and my soul shall be healed.”
v. Whence comes it, that this Lamb of God, that this God of purity and majesty, can vouchsafe to lower Himself to me, so unworthy of His presence?
Yes, Lord, I do not deserve that Thou shouldst come to me; say but the word, and my soul shall be healed.

[LetTheReceivingOfThyBody]
# Let the Receiving of Thy Body, O Lord (in Preparation)
v. LET the receiving of Thy Body, O Lord Jesus Christ, which I, though unworthy, do presume to receive, turn not to me for judgement and condemnation, but, according to Thy mercy, let it be profitable to me for the receiving of protection and healing, both of soul and body: Who lovest and reignest for ever and ever. Amen.
<i>Lord, I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under my roof; but only say the word and my soul shall be healed.</i>

[PrayerStThomasAquinasBeforeMass]
# Prayer of St. Thomas Aquinas
v. Almighty and ever-lasting God, I approach the sacrament of Thy only-begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. I come sick to the doctor of life, unclean to the fountain of mercy, blind to the radiance of eternal light, and poor and needy to the Lord of heaven and earth.
r. Therefore, I implore Thee in Thy great generosity, to heal my sickness, to wash away my defilement, enlighten my blindness, to enrich my poverty, and to clothe my nakedness, so that I may receive the bread of angels, the King of kings, and the Lord of lords with reverence and humility, with contrition and devotion, with purity and faith, and with such purpose and determination that will be expedient to the salvation of my soul.
r. Grant me, I beseech Thee, that I may not only receive the Sacrament of the Body and Blood of the Lord, but also the reality and power of the Sacrament.
r. O most kind God, grant that I may receive the Body of Thine only-begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, born of the Virgin Mary, and so received that I may be worthy to be incorporated into His mystical body, and numbered among His members.
r. O most loving Father, grant me Thy beloved Son, which I now receive under the veil of a sacrament, that I may one day behold Him face to face in glory, Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, forever. Amen.

[PrayerStAmbroseBeforeMass]
# Prayer of St. Ambrose
v. Lord Jesus Christ, I approach Thy banquet table in fear and trembling, for I am a sinner, and dare not rely on my own worth, but only on Thy goodness and mercy.
I am defiled by my many sins in body and soul, and by my unguarded thoughts and words. Gracious God of majesty and awe, I seek Thy protection, I look for Thy healing. Poor troubled sinner that I am, I appeal to Thee, the fountain of all mercy.
I cannot bear Thy judgment, but I trust in Thy salvation. Lord, I show my wounds to Thee and uncover my shame before Thee. I know my sins are many and great, and they fill me with fear, but I hope in Thy mercies, for they cannot be numbered.
r. Lord Jesus Christ, Eternal King, God and man, crucified for mankind, look upon me with mercy and hear my prayer, for I trust in Thee. Have mercy on me, full of sorrow and sin, for the depth of Thy compassion never ends.
r. Praise to Thee saving sacrifice, offered on the wood of the cross for me and for all mankind. Praise to the noble and precious Blood, flowing from the wounds of my crucified Lord Jesus Christ and washing away the sins of the whole world.
r. Remember, Lord, Thy creature, whom Thou hast redeemed with Thy blood; I repent my sins, and I long to put right what I have done.
Merciful Father, take away all my offenses and sins; purify me in body and soul, and make me worthy to taste the Holy of Holies.
May Thy Body and Blood, which I intend to receive, although I am unworthy, be for me the remission of my sins, the washing away of my guilt, the end of my evil thoughts, and the rebirth of my better instincts. May it incite me to do the works pleasing to Thee, and a firm defense of body and soul against the wiles of my enemies. Amen.

[PrayerBlessedVirginMaryBeforeMass]
# Prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary
v. O MOST Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of gentleness and mercy, I, a miserable and unworthy sinner, fly to thy protection with every sentiment of humility and love; and I implore of thy loving kindness that thou wouldst vouchsafe graciously to be near me, and all who throughout the whole Church are to receive the Body and Blood of thy Son this day, even as thou wert near thy sweetest Son as He hung bleeding on the Cross. Aided by thy gracious help, may we worthily approach this august Sacrament. Amen.

[PrayerStJosephBeforeMass]
# Prayer to St. Joseph
v. HAPPY and blessed art thou, O Joseph, to whom it was given not only to see and to hear that God Whom many kings desired to see, and saw not, to hear, and heard not; but also to bear Him in thine arms, to embrace Him, to clothe Him, and to guard and defend Him.
P. Pray for us, O blessed Joseph.
S. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
P. Let us pray.
r. O God, who hast given unto us a royal priesthood, vouchsafe, we beseech Thee, that as Blessed Joseph was found worthy to handle with his hands, and bear within his arms, Thine only-begotten Son, born of the Virgin Mary, so may we be made fit, by cleanness of heart and innocence of works, worthily to receive the most sacred Body and Blood of Thy Son, now in this present, and deserve to attain an everlasting reward in the world to come. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.

[AllTheAngelsAndSaintsBeforeMass]
# Prayer to All the Angels and Saints
v. Angels, Archangels, Thrones, Dominations, Principalities, Powers, heavenly Virtues, Cherubim and Seraphim; all Saints of God, holy men and women, and for you especially my patrons: deign to intercede for me that I may be worthy to offer this Sacrifice to almighty God, to the praise and glory of His name, for my own welfare and also that of all His holy Church. Amen.

[SaintInWhoseHonorMassIsCelebrated]
# Prayer to the Saint in Whose Honor the Mass is Celebrated
v. O HOLY N., behold I, a wretched sinner, relying on thy merits, now offer for thy honor and glory the most holy Sacrament of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. Humbly and devoutly do I beg thee to intercede for me this day, and to plead that I may have the grace to offer this great Sacrifice in a worthy and acceptable fashion and to be able to sing His praises eternally with thee and with all His elect in heaven. Who lives and reigns forever. Amen.

[FormingOfOnesIntention]
# The Forming of One’s Intention
r. Joy with peace,
r. amendment of life,
r. space for true repentance,
r. the grace and comfort of the Holy Ghost,
r. perseverance in good works,
r. a contrite and humble heart,
r. and a happy consummation of my life,
r. grant unto me,
r. O Almighty and merciful Lord.
Amen.

[SoulsLongingForGod]
# Psalm 83 - Qual dilecta, anima.
<i>The soul aspireth after heaven; rejoicing in the mean time, in being in the communion of God’s church upon earth.</i>
v. HOW lovely are Thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul longeth and fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh have rejoiced in the living God. For the sparrow hath found herself a house, and the turtle a nest for herself where she may lay her young ones: Thy altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, O Lord: they shall praise Thee for ever and ever.
r. Blessed is the man whose help is from Thee: in his heart he hath disposed to ascend by steps*, In the vale of tears, in the place which he hath set. For the lawgiver shall give a blessing, they shall go from virtue to virtue: the God of gods shall be seen in Sion. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Behold, O God our protector: and look on the face of Thy Christ.
r. For better is one day in thy courts above thousands. I have chosen to be an abject in the house of my God, rather than to dwell in the tabernacles of sinners. For God loveth mercy and truth: the Lord will give grace and glory. He will not deprive of good things them that walk in innocence: O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in Thee.
<i>Gloria Patri …</i>
_
<i>In his heart he hath disposed to ascend by steps: Ascensiones in corde suo disposuit. As by steps men ascended to the temple of God situated on a hill; so the good Christian ascends towards the eternal temple by certain steps of virtue disposed or ordered within the heart: and this whilst he lives as yet in the body, in this vale of tears, the place which man hath set: that is, which he hath brought himself to: being cast out of paradise for his sin.</i>

[TrinitarianPreparation1]
# Trinitarian Preparation I
v. Holy Ghost, help me to receive Jesus with love and reverence. Thou art my teacher and my sanctifier, and by Thee I live.
Thou givest light and strength to my soul. Jesus, hidden in the Blessed Sacrament, is my Saviour and my God.
I long to be with Him, that He may abide more in me and I in Him. He is the bread of life, the true bread of God.
I long to feed with adoration on that living bread. Be with me, O blessed Spirit, as I draw near to the altar, and give me always more faithfulness to Jesus and more love for Him.
r. Jesus, Thou standest behind our wall, being hidden in the Blessed Sacrament. Thence Thou lookest through the lattices, searching our most secret thoughts.
Give me grace to wait for Thee, and watch for Thee, that I may be always ready to meet Thee at Thy coming.
r. Thy head is full of dew, for as God Thou art all-merciful; and Thy locks are full of the drops of the night, for Thou wast a man of sorrows, and didst carry Thy cross for me.
r. I love Thee and adore Thee, Jesus, God and man. With hunger and thirst of soul I long to receive Thee in the mystery of the altar.
Send forth Thy spirit more and more into my soul, that I may be ever nearer to Thee, my King and my God.

[TrinitarianPreparation2]
# Trinitarian Preparation II
v. In the light of the tabernacle I ask Thee, O Holy Ghost, to fill my heart with pure desire for Jesus, the living bread.
Give me grace to adore Him with the holy angels, that His will may be done on earth as it is in heaven, and that His will may be done in my soul.
Help me to thank Him for all His gifts, and most of all for Himself.
By this holy sacrament He strengthens souls on earth, and gives rest to souls in purgatory, and gladdens souls in heaven.
He is the hidden manna, promised by Himself to all who overcome. Thy grace will bring me in safety to God. May I taste the sweetness of Jesus!
May my soul be kept by Thee very bright for the coming of my spouse!

[TrinitarianPreparation3]
# Trinitarian Preparation III
v. Cleanse my heart, O holy Spirit, by this heavenly food, wherein Jesus gives me Himself.
Strengthen my faith, that I may see Jesus in this sacrament of His body and blood.
There is in me a law by which I am in danger of falling into the captivity of sin.
I have often to go on my heavenward way through darkness and many temptations, but Thou art my light and my strength.
In Thee I trust. By Thy grace I can do all things that Jesus wishes me to do. Be ever in my soul as the dew of the light.
With utter trust I rest upon Thee, and believe the testimony which Thou givest.
Set up more and more Thy kingdom in my soul, that I may keep my body under, and bring it to subjection, lest I should be a castaway from Jesus and from Thee.

[TrinitarianPreparation4]
# Trinitarian Preparation IV
v. O Holy Ghost, let my life be hidden with Jesus in God. Give me grace to live for God only, and to use creatures in Him and for His sake.
Let the beauty of God blind me to the beauty of the world, and let the light of God blind me to the light of earth.
Thou, O my God, art brighter than all things and sweeter. Take away from my soul all the dross and purify it, giving it light and strength.
To Thee, Spirit of deathless love, I turn for help. Take from me all human respect; for wrong regard of creatures blights the soul, so that its fruits are withered.
Help me to be more faithful to Jesus, my love, Who is coming to me from His altar.
He is my life, as Thou art my life, and as the eternal Father is my life.
Give me more love, that I may welcome Jesus as He comes to me in the hidden light, and in the freshness of the morning dew.

[TrinitarianPreparation5]
# Trinitarian Preparation V
v. O Holy Ghost, fill me with the fear of the Lord, and drive far from me all thoughts of presumption.
Save me from guilt like this. Keep me from offending God; and keep me from the wounds of His anger.
Make me feel His goodness, and fill my heart with thankfulness.
If I am faithful to Thee, Thou wilt give me much grace; if I am unfaithful, Thou wilt give me little grace, or, it may be, none at all.
Dwell in my soul more and more, that I may be faithful with a great faithfulness, and inherit the fulness of Thy promises.

[TrinitarianPreparation6]
# Trinitarian Preparation VI
v. O Holy Ghost, give me a great hunger for the bread of life.
Do Thou, by that bread which is Jesus, satisfy my soul, and strengthen it, and make it full of life.
I am needy with a great need; but this bread of heaven is the life of the poor; let it be my life.
I am very poor and needy; but Thou, my own Lord, dost always care for me.
 Without Thee, blessed Spirit, I can not say, Jesus: without Thee, helper of the needy, I can not feed on Him Who is the bread from heaven.
r. O Spirit of peace, give me a great love for the holy sacrifice of the Mass.
r. O Spirit of reconciliation, help all darkened souls, and bring them back to life.
r. O Spirit of mercy, help the souls that are now suffering in the fire of Purgatory.
I ask Thee, by Thine own goodness, to give them refreshment and joy and white robes of consoling love.
r. O Spirit most full of pity, give me a great joy in the sacrament of love. Thou dwellest in me, and by Thee I live to God.
Thou makest me a temple of Thyself and of the Father and the Son. Thou makest me an heir of God.
Bring me now, dear Spirit, in light to the altar; bring me in light to my grave; bring me in light to the city of the King and the song of the morning stars.

[TrinitarianPreparation7]
# Trinitarian Preparation VII
v. Eternal Father, wash me from my sins in the blood of Jesus.
r. Eternal Son, fill me with the fire of Thy Heart.
r. Eternal Spirit, make me glad with the sweetness of the soul of Jesus.
r. O eternal Father, crush all the powers of evil under my feet. Let me walk upon the asp and the basilisk; let me trample under foot the lion and the dragon by the blood of Thy Son.
r. O eternal Son, pour into my soul abundant gifts of grace. Thou didst die for me on the cross.
There Thou didst merit for me the treasures of grace which now Thou givest.
Thou didst give me Thyself in shedding of blood and in dimness of death.
Now Thou givest me Thyself in outpouring of gladness and in Thy deathless life. Thou wast dead and art alive forever.
r. O eternal Spirit, hide me more and more with God, and let there be in me more and more of the mind of Jesus.
Touch the lips of my soul and give me a taste for this bread of God, that I may know the graciousness of my Jesus, and the sweetness of His blood.
The love of God is shed abroad in my heart, for Thou, O Holy Ghost, art given to me. Oh, lift me up, dear Spirit, from the dust.
Oh, bring me in Thine own good time to the pavement of pure gold as clear as crystal. Fill my soul with Thy dew; fill it with Thy fire.
There is no dew like Thine; and there is no fire like Thine. They mingle together in the fruitfulness of the garden of the Spouse.
They mingle with the blood of Jesus, and with the water from His side.
Oh, fire of the Holy Ghost, gentle and sweet as dew! Oh, dew of the Holy Ghost, piercing and cleansing as fire! O Holy Ghost, Whom I love, lift Thy little one to Thine uncreated Heart.
r. O blessed Trinity, show me the hidden things of the blood of Jesus, the holy mystery of Thy Church.

[TrinitarianPreparation8]
# Trinitarian Preparation VIII
v. O Jesus, Lamb of God, hidden in the darkness, give me grace to come to Thee.
r. O Jesus, Thou art God and man, miraculously conceived, miraculously born; give me light that I may know Thee.
r. O Jesus, conceived of the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary, give me strength to come to Thee.
r. O Jesus, Thou art in this most holy sacrament with Thy body and soul and Godhead; give me grace to find Thee and love Thee.
r. My Saviour, give me true sorrow for sin as I draw near to Thy altar, seeking for Thee.
r. My Saviour take from me all pride, all malice, all wickedness; that in newness of life, without guile and without vainglory, I may give Thee the praise of my life, and draw near to Thy altar, seeking Thee.
r. My Saviour, sprinkle me with Thy precious blood, and lead me in the way of Thy passion, and keep me beneath the shadow of Thy cross, that I may draw near to Thy altar, seeking Thee.
r. O most holy Jesus, purify my soul from all uncleanness and from every spot displeasing to Thee, that in holiness of heart I may feed upon this bread of God.
r. O most holy Jesus, keep me from every wound of sin, and lead me in the right way, that I may walk in the footsteps of those who loved Thee, and feed now upon this bread of God.
r. O most holy Jesus, give me an upright heart and a just heart, that I may love Thee, the King in Jerusalem, and wait for Thy coming, and feed now upon this bread of God.
r. O Jesus, incarnate Word, my King and my God, I come to Thee. Hungry and thirsty, my spirit fainteth within me; and I cry to Thee, O Thou lover of my soul.
Thou, my Jesus, art the giver of bread: set a table for me in the wilderness. Thou, my Jesus, art the giver of drink: let me slake my thirst with living water from the Rock.
Draw me, my Lord and my God; then I will come to Thee. Speak to me, my brother and my friend — then I will listen to Thee and follow in Thy steps.
r. Fasten me, O sweetest Jesus, to Thyself with a chain of gold which will not break, and let me rest on Thy Heart.
In the everlasting home feed me with Thy beauty, with the vision of Thy face, with the vision of the face of God. O Jesus, Jesus, Jesus!

[TrinitarianPreparation9]
# Trinitarian Preparation IX
v. O Holy Ghost, my helper and my comforter, Thou knowest all the suffering through which I may have to go, and Thou knowest the chains by which I am bound.
Thou knowest, giver of holiness, how my soul cleaves to the dust. Thou knowest my need of grace, and how little I seek for it, and how I waste the graces which Thou in Thy goodness givest me.
Thou knowest how I am stricken with the wounds of death in pain and sorrow and wasting of life. These things lead me onward to my grave.
Help me, Spirit of life, and comfort me and hold me up with Thy Almighty hand. In all temptations of the Devil I come to Thee.
In all temptations of my own heart I come to Thee. If I live according to the flesh, I die: but, if by Thee I kill the flesh, I live.
If I am led by Thee as Thou longest to lead me, I am a child of God.
r. Wash me from all stain of sin, and save me.
r. I pray that the most holy body of Jesus may be in me as that balm of Gilead against which no diseases of the spirit can prevail.
Let it be to me that light of salvation against which no thickness of darkness has power.
r. Jesus, coming to me from Thy altar, fill my soul with love, and bring me at last safely to the whiteness of the streets in Thy heavenly city, where Thy elect dwell with Thee for ever.
