[Introitus]
!Ecclus. 44:15; 44:14.
v. At gatherings the wisdom of the Saints is retold, and the assembly sings their praises; their name lives on and on.
!Ps 32:1
Exult, you just, in the Lord; praise from the upright is fitting.
&Gloria
v. At gatherings the wisdom of the Saints is retold, and the assembly sings their praises; their name lives on and on.

[Graduale]
@Sancti/07-06

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
!Matt 14:22-33
v. And forthwith Jesus obliged his disciples to go up into the boat, and to go before him over the water, till he dismissed the people. And having dismissed the multitude, he went into a mountain alone to pray. And when it was evening, he was there alone. But the boat in the midst of the sea was tossed with the waves: for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth watch of the night, he came to them walking upon the sea. And they seeing him walk upon the sea, were troubled, saying: It is an apparition. And they cried out for fear. And immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying: Be of good heart: it is I, fear ye not. And Peter making answer, said: Lord, if it be thou, bid me come to thee upon the waters. And he said: Come. And Peter going down out of the boat, walked upon the water to come to Jesus. But seeing the wind strong, he was afraid: and when he began to sink, he cried out, saying: Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretching forth his hand took hold of him, and said to him: O thou of little faith, why didst thou doubt? And when they were come up into the boat, the wind ceased. And they that were in the boat came and adored him, saying: Indeed thou art the Son of God.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 149:5-6
v. The saints shall rejoice in glory: they shall be joyful in their beds. The high praise of God shall be in their mouth.

[Secreta]
We offer thee, O Lord, our prayers and gifts, and that they may be found worthy in thy sight, let us be aided by the prayers of thy Apostels, Peter and Paul.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Wis 3:1; 3:2; 3:3
v. But the souls of the just are in the hand of God, and the torment of death shall not touch them. In the sight of the unwise they seemed to die: but they are in peace.
