[Rule]
vide C4a
Gloria
CredoDA

[Rank]
;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4a
(sed rubrica 1963)
;;Simplex;;1.1;;vide C4a

[Officium]
St. Alphonsus Liguori, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church

[Introitus]
!Luke 4:18
v. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me; to bring good news to the poor He has sent me, to heal the contrite of heart.
!Ps 77:1
Hearken, my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
&Gloria
v. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me; to bring good news to the poor He has sent me, to heal the contrite of heart.

[Oratio]
O God, Who through blessed Alphonsus Mary, Your Confessor and Bishop, fired with love for souls, enriched Your Church with a new family; we beseech You that, taught by his saving counsels and strengthened by his example, we may be enabled happily to come to You.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
!2 Tim. 2:1-7
Dearly beloved: Be strengthened in the grace which is in Christ Jesus; and the things that you have heard from me through many witnesses, commend to trustworthy men who shall be competent in turn to teach others. Conduct yourself in work as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. No one serving as God's soldier entangles himself in worldly affairs, that he may please him whose approval he has secured. And again, one who enters a contest is not crowned unless he has competed according to the rules. The farmer who toils must be the first to partake of the fruits. Take in what I tell you, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.

[Graduale]
!Ps 118:52-53
I remember your ordinances of old, O Lord, and I am comforted. Indignation seizes me because of the wicked who forsake Your law.
!Ps 39:11
V. Your justice I kept not hid within my heart; Your faithfulness and Your salvation I have spoken of. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ecclus. 49:3-4
He was directed by God to the repentance of the nation, and he took away the abominations of wickedness. He turned to God with his whole heart, and though times were evil, he practiced virtue.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ps 132:1-2
Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! Like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, the beard of Aaron. Alleluia.
!Joann 15:16
V. I have appointed you, that you should go and should bring forth fruit: and that your fruit should remain. Alleluia.

[Tractus]
!Ps 34:13
But as for me, when they were troublesome to me, I clothed myself with haircloth: I humbled my soul with fasting: and let my prayer be turned into my own bosom.
!Ps 22:5.
V. Thou hast prepared a table before me against them that afflict me: Thou hast anointed my head with oil, and my cup which inebriateth me, how goodly it is!
!1 Cor 9:22
V. To the weak I became weak, that I might gain the weak

[Evangelium]
@Sancti/02-06

[Offertorium]
!Pr 3:9, 27
Honor the Lord with your wealth, and give Him the first fruits of all your produce. Do not withhold him from doing good who is able; if you are able, do good yourself also.

[Secreta]
O Lord, Jesus Christ, Who granted to St. Aphonsus Mary to celebrate this rite and thereby offer himself as a holy victim to You, consume our hearts by the heavenly fire of this sacrifice so that it may ascend as a sweet fragrance unto You.
$Qui vivis

[Communio]
!Ecclus 50:1, 9
A great priest, who in his time renovated the house, and in his days reinforced the temple, as a bright fire, and frankincense burning in the fire.

[Postcommunio]
O God, Who made St. Alphonsus Mary, Your Confessor and Bishop, a faithful dispenser of this divine sacrament, grant by his merits and prayers, that Your faithful may frequently receive it, and, receiving it, praise it forever.
$Per Dominum
