[Rule]
vide C5;
9 lectiones

[Rank]
;;Duplex;;3;;vide C5

[Officium]
St. Joseph of Cupertino Confessor

[Introitus]
!Ecclus 1:14-15
v. The love of God is honorable wisdom; and they to whom she shall show herself, love her by the sight, and by the knowledge of her great works.
!Ps 83:2
How lovely is Your dwelling place, O Lord of Hosts! My soul yearns and pines for the courts of the Lord.
&Gloria
v. The love of God is honorable wisdom; and they to whom she shall show herself, love her by the sight, and by the knowledge of her great works.

[Oratio]
O God, Who willed that all things be drawn unto Your Son when He was raised above the earth, mercifully grant, by the merits and example of Your seraphic Confessor Joseph, that, having been raised above all earthly desires, we may be found worthy to come unto Him.
$Qui tecum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
!1 Cor 13:1-8
Brethren: If I should speak with tongues of men and of angels, but do not have charity, I have become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And if I have prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, yet do not have charity, I am nothing. And if I distribute all my goods to feed the poor, and if I deliver my body to be burned, yet do not have charity, it profits me nothing. Charity is patient, is kind; charity does not envy, is not pretentious, is not puffed up, is not ambitious, is not self-seeking, is not provoked; thinks no evil, does not rejoice over wickedness, but rejoices with the truth; bears with all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Charity never fails, whereas prophecies will disappear, and tongues will cease, and knowledge will be destroyed.

[Graduale]
!Ps 20:4-5
O Lord, You welcomed him with goodly blessings, You placed on his head a crown of pure gold.
V. He asked life of You: You gave him length of days forever and ever. Alleluia, alleluia.
!Ecclus 11:13
V. The eye of God looks favorably upon him; He raises him free of the vile dust, and lifts up his head. Alleluia.

[GradualeP]
Alleluia, alleluia.
!Eccli 11:13
The eye of God hath looked upon him for good, and hath lifted him up from his lowliness, and hath exalted his head. Alleluia.
!Ps 45:9.
The Lord loved him, and adorned him: He hath clothed him with a robe of glory. Alleluia.

[Evangelium]
@Tempora/Pent19-0

[Offertorium]
!Ps 34:13
But as for me, when they were troublesome to me, I was clothed with haircloth, and I humbled my soul with fasting, and poured forth prayers within my bosom.

[Communio]
!Ps 68:30-31
I am afflicted and in pain; let Your saving help, O God, protect me. I will praise the name of God in song, and I will glorify Him with thanksgiving.
