[Rank]
;;Feria privilegiata Duplex I classis;;7

[Officium]
De missa chrismatis

[Rule]
Gloria
Credo
Prefatio=Chrismatis
celebranda aut de missa chrismatis aut missa in coena Domini
prelude

[Station]
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran

[Prelude]
!The blessing of the oil of catechumens and of the sick, and the fashioning of the holy chrism, are performed according to the order described in the Roman Pontifical.

[Introitus]
!Ex 30:25,31
v. Thou shalt make the oil of unction, and shalt say to the children of Israel: This oil of unction shall be holy unto me throughout your generations.
!Ps 88:2
The mercies of the Lord I will sing for ever: from generation to generation I will show forth Thy truth with my mouth. Thou shalt make the oil of unction.
v.Thou shalt make the oil of unction, and shalt say to the children of Israel: This oil of unction shall be holy unto me throughout your generations.

[Oratio]
O Lord God, who in the regenerating of Thy people dost use the ministry of priests; grant to us a service persevering in Thy will; so that by the gift of Thy grace, in our days, the people consecrated to Thee may increase both in merit and in number.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio]
Lesson from the letter of St James the Apostle
!Jas 5:13-16
Brethren: Is any of you sad? Let him pray. Is he cheerful in mind? Let him sing psalms. Is any man sick among you? Let him bring in the priests of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick man, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he be in sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess therefore your sins one to another, and pray for one another, that you may be saved; for the continual prayer of a just man availeth much.

[Graduale]
!Ps 27:7-8
In God hath my heart confided, and I have been helped. And my flesh hath flourished again: and with my whole will I will give praise to Him.
V. The Lord is the strength of His people, and the protector of the salvation of His Anointed.

[Evangelium]
Continuation + of the Holy Gospel according to Mark
!Mark 6:7-13
At that time: Jesus called the twelve, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them power over unclean spirits. And he commanded them that they should take nothing for the way, but a staff only; no scrip, no bread, nor money in their purse, but to be shod with sandals, and that they should not put on two coats. And he said to them: Wheresoever you shall enter into an house, there abide till you depart from that place. And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you; going forth from thence, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony to them. And going forth they preached men should do penance: And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them.

[Offertorium]
!Ps 44:7
Thou hast loved justice and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

[Secreta]
May the power of this sacrifice, we beseech Thee, O Lord, mercifully wipe away our oldness, and increase in us newness and salvation.
$Per Dominum

[Communio]
!Marc. 6:12-13
The Apostles preached that they should do penance; and they anointed many sick with oil, and healed them.

[Postcommunio]
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord: that, as we pass from things past to things new; so, having put away our oldness, we may be renewed with sanctified minds.
$Per Dominum
